Think back on your life.
When have you made a major change?
And at what point did that change feel normal?
We're hardwired to adapt,
but that doesn't mean it happens instantly.
For most of us, change is gradual.
We make a plan, experience unsteadiness,
and eventually, adjust.
The same thing happens with company-wide changes.
And one of the best strategies
for understanding and applying this concept
is Lewin's Change Management Model.
Let's define Lewin's Model,
unpack its benefits, and discover how to use it.
Kurt Lewin's 3-Step Model
is a classic framework for managing company change.
The model uses the analogy of reshaping an ice cube
into a cone.
First, you must melt or unfreeze the ice
so that it's amenable to change.
In the same way,
companies unfreeze current processes.
Next, the ice melts and changes shape.
Similarly, a company reshapes itself
and enters an unstable transition state.
Finally, the ice water refreezes and the change solidifies.
For companies, this phase signifies a return to stability.
Lewin's 3-Step Model illustrates
how companies can reshape the status quo
by unfreezing existing conditions,
implementing a change, and refreezing operations.
So, what are the benefits of Lewin's Model?
For one, it's easy to understand.
It breaks down unwieldy changes into a simple framework
that companies can readily adopt.
Second, it gets people on board
by emphasizing employee motivation as a driving contributor
to a successful change.
Third, by unfreezing the status quo
before implementing a change,
the model prepares employees to get ready
for the official game day.
Finally, this model helps companies
create changes that stick.
We see this with the final refreeze stage,
which stresses the need to embed changes
into company routines.
Lewin's Model is a helpful framework
for instituting change if you're able to invest the time.
Status quo shifts don't happen overnight,
so this framework is most beneficial
for large-scale changes.
Let's break down how to apply Lewin's 3-Step Model
to your company.
We begin by unfreezing current processes
and preparing employees for the upcoming transition.
Unfreeze the status quo by first defining the change.
What's going to happen?
Why is this necessary?
And whom will it impact?
Next, gather support from company leaders and stakeholders.
Change is a company-wide endeavor
and you'll need leaders to drive things forward.
Once you have support,
bring employees into the loop.
Share a compelling message and maintain transparency
by explaining what's going to change,
how that will impact teams,
and why the change is a good thing,
both from a company and individual perspective.
Finally, take time to address uncertainties.
Resistance is common,
and employees need space to ask questions,
raise concerns, and get familiar with the plan.
The first stage of Lewin's Model
is all about melting the ice
and getting people ready to transform.
Once employees are motivated and prepared,
it's time to put the plan into action.
After unfreezing the status quo,
deploy the change and guide teams forward
by following these tips.
First, communicate often.
Employees should have opportunities to give feedback,
ask questions, and share updates.
And leadership should avoid rumors
by explaining how the change impacts operations,
answering questions, and regularly updating employees
on progress and roadblocks.
Next, provide support.
People need extra guidance as they learn the ropes.
Give employees access to a knowledge base and training,
and make sure everyone has someone
they can turn to for help.
Third, maintain morale
by celebrating what's good about the change.
Reinforce the change's benefits by highlighting individual
and company-wide benefits.
Also, boost confidence and reinforce
a we're moving forward mentality by celebrating small wins.
Employees will need hand holding and encouragement
as they get used to new ways of doing things.
Eventually, however, performance will level out.
When that happens,
it's your cue to move forward.
Finally, it's time to anchor the change
and refreeze operations.
Begin by documenting official processes.
You might've made a few adjustments during the change stage.
Now that the adjustment period is over,
embed the change into your company culture
by updating training materials and documents.
Next, hold a celebration.
Instill a we did it mentality
by celebrating the change's success.
Third, give regular reviews.
Routinely check in with employees
to ensure that they're incorporating the change
into daily operation.
Finally, continue offering support.
Employees will have more confidence and knowledge
by the refreeze stage,
but that doesn't mean support should stop.
Help team members sustain the change
by listening to their needs
and offering guidance as necessary.
Lewin's Change Management Model
follows an intuitive, gradual process.
We prepare employees for the upcoming change
by unfreezing the status quo.
Then, we enter an insecure transition period,
helping employees through stumbles and empowering them
to push forward.
Finally, we sustain and reinforce a change
by refreezing operations.
Follow this simple framework
when implementing company-wide changes
and you'll lay the groundwork
for a successful, smooth transition.